* bugfix: crash when requested protocol is not enabled (issue #64)
* add support for nat detection based on appearance of nat=yes in the Record-Route or Contact header (issue #66).  Some proxies are known to insert this when the detect nat scenarios.
* fix for some compile warnings.
* when choosing a transport for outbound invite, check the the protocol of the outbound proxy (if one is configured)
* include a transport= param in the Contact header in 200 OK response to incoming invite when transport is not udp (required by pjsip)
* add support for cloud deployments in Kubernetes where the public IP address must be dynamically discovered.
* added autogen.sh deprecating bootstrap.sh
* Major changes here to remove a lot of boost code which is now included in the C++ standard.  __Most notably, gcc 4.9 or above is now required.__
* Compile with stdc++-17 if available, stdc++-11 if not.
* handle a mid-call network handoff, e.g. a client on a wifi network switches to LTE during a call - BYE should be sent to the new (on the LTE network) address.
* send ACK to failed response using same transport as response was received on.
* fix for sending to non-standard syslog UDP port, if specified in config.
* Added optional support for TLS encryption of messages between the drachtio server and drachtio-srf applications.  Requires drachtio-srf@4.4.0 or above.
* set timerG and timerH only for udp transports.
* handle SIGPIPE without exiting - can happen occasionally when a client disconnects.
* eliminate confusing / contradictory GPL license text.